---
layout: article
title: 3) Libraries - Including JavaScript and CSS in Drupal 8 Themes
subtitle: Lessons from the Road
categories: drupal8
comments: true
share: true
image:
  teaser: triboro-800-500.jpg
  feature: triboro-1140-285.jpg
  credit: Joshua Brandenburg
  creditlink: http://www.drinkandsmile.com/
excerpt: Including JavaScript and CSS in your Drupal 8 theme.

---

## Lessons From the Road

{{ site.data.posts-d8-theming.lessons-excerpt }}

{% include toc.html %}

## Libraries - Including JS and CSS

JS and CSS are included in D8 via libraries. 

Using libraries in our themes keeps development more consistent between creating custom modules and custom themes. One major advantage to this approach is that libraries provide the ability use dependencies to insure proper source order of JS libraries. So we no longer need to rely only on fiddling around with weights and scopes.

## Declare the library in .info.yml

We need to make Drupal aware that this theme has a library. To do so,
in the themes `THEMENAME.info.yml` file, we declare the library.

{% highlight yaml %}
libraries:
  - THEMENAME/LIBRARYNAME
  - THEMENAME/NAMESPACE.LIBRARYNAME2

libraries:
  - mskcc/msk.globalstyles
  - mskcc/msk.globalscripts    
{% endhighlight %}

It is a good idea to namespace your library name (by prepending it with a unique site or theme abbrevation) so that you don't unintentionally declare the same library name as some other module, etc.

*Note: Libraries silently fail if they don't load.*

## Create libraries.yml file

Create a file `THEMENAME.libraries.yml` in your theme folder. This file will list out and define all of your libraries. A given library can include both CSS and JS. (The above examples have them separate.)

## Example CSS Library

Here is an example of defining a library for CSS. 

{% highlight yaml %}
  NAMESPACE.LIBRARYNAME:
    css:
      theme:
        path/to/cssfile.css: { }

  msk.globalstyles:
    css:
      theme:
        //cloud.typography.com/7801712/653006/css/fonts.css: { }
        assets/styles/legacy.css: { browsers: { IE: 'lt IE 9', '!IE': false } }
        assets/styles/main.css: { browsers: { IE: 'gt IE 8', '!IE': true } }
        css/drupal-compatibility.css: { }
{% endhighlight %}

Note the necessity of the "**theme:**" heading under css. These sub-groupings are available: theme, base, layout, component, and state.

Paths are relative to theme folder root.

The curly brackets contain additional parameters, and must be present even if no paramaters are being passed.

### CSS Parameters
Most paramaters that were available in Drupal 7's [drupal_add_css](https://api.drupal.org/api/drupal/includes%21common.inc/function/drupal_add_css/7) can be translated into parameters in Drupal 8 libraries.

Some example parameters:

- browsers: { IE: 'gt IE 8', '!IE': true },
- every_page: true, 
- weight: -10,
- preprocess: FALSE

## Example JS Library

Here is an example of defining a library with JS.

{% highlight yaml %}
  NAMESPACE.LIBRARYNAME :
    version: VERSION
    js:
      path/to/jsfile.js: {}
    path/to/jsfile2.js: {}
    dependencies:
      - MODULE/LIBRARYNAME
      - THEMENAME/LIBRARYNAME

  msk.globalscripts:
    version: VERSION
    js:
      js/drupal-compatibility.js: {}
      assets/tmp/concat/assets/scripts/main.js: {}
  
    dependencies:
      - core/jquery
      - core/jquery.ui
      - core/jquery.ui.effects.blind
      - core/jquery.ui.dialog
      - core/drupal
      - core/modernizr
      - core/html5shiv
      - mskcc/msk.jPushMenu
  
  msk.jPushMenu:
    js:
      assets/scripts/vendor/jPushMenu_custom.js: {}
      
{% endhighlight %}

Note: there is no "theme:" heading under js:

The curly brackets contain additional parameters, and must be present even if no paramaters are being passed.

dependencies: This lists out other libraries upon which this library depends. You can refer to core libraries or other libraries defined in this same libraries.yml file of the theme.

Look in `core/core.libraries.yml` (and search through all *libraries.yml files in core) to find the names of libraries that you may need to list as dependencies and to find many examples of how to define libraries and use parameters.

### Example JS Parameters

- every_page: true, 
- weight: -22, 
- browsers: { IE: 'lte IE 8', '!IE': false }, 
- minified: true
- preprocess: 0, 
- scope: header, footer
